¶
After defeating the diabolical
Doctor Thaddeus Blakk
and sending him into
the Deep Caverns--
--never to be seen again,
Eli Shane and his gang thought
their battle was over.
But the brave heroes barely
had time to take a breath
before a new enemy
threatened Slugterra:
The Goon!
A ghoul dark slug with nasty
mind controlling powers.
Eli and the Shane Gang
defeated their foes,
freeing the Dark Slinger
from the Goon's evil thrall.
The Goon lost a lackey, and the
Shane Gang gained an ally:
Junjie, the mysterious slinger
from the Eastern Caverns.
And there you have it!
The latest tales of Slugterra's
greatest heroes!
So whaddya think kids?
You wanna grow up and
become a slug slinger?
Well, you're gonna need guts!
Do you have the guts!?
And the drive?!
The passion for it!?
Well, it's a hard life,
but it's exciting!
Why, I bet the Shane Gang are
off doing something right now
that'll make your eyeballs
explode!
[snores]
[gasps]
No!
Eli.
You must gather
the five together.
[growls]
[yells]
[grunts]
Huh?
[panting]
[chirps]
It's okay guys.
Just a dream.
I'm fine.
[chirps]
Huh?
Couldn't sleep either,
Eli?
Uh...No...the TV...it was
a little loud.
I dreamt of fire
and destruction,
the Caverns in chaos
under the shadow of the Goon.
And a monstrous claw that--
A claw?!
I had the same dream.
I fear it was more of a
premonition than a dream.
Saoma.
[yawns]
Well, whatever it was,
I'm not going back to sleep
with my head full of Goon.
And the best way to clear
my mind is--
An early morning duel!
Up for some fun?
I am ready to improve
my skills, as always.
Zhunbei!
Hoichi!
[gasps]
Excellent.
Shall we commence?
[chirps]
Uh..
[snores]
In a minute.
Rise and shine,
guys!
[snores]
[yells]
[laughs]
Good one, Joules!
[chuckles]
Okay, tighten up, guys.
[giggles]
Let's do this.
[chirping]
Now we're ready!
Bring it--
Whoa!
[yells]
Thank you for an
invigorating duel.
So, you finally seem
better after being
under the Goon's control.
Yes, and I'm eager to use all
of my abilities to repay you
for freeing me
from the Goon's captivity.
I still don't get how you
control your slugs
with that slug fu stuff.
Well, I have done nothing but
practice since I was a child.
Slugfire!
That was a Rammstone!
Ah, it's cool.
Follow me.
You can tell what sort of slug's
been slung
just by the sound?
Wow.
[panics]
Come on, Bludgeon!
[chirping]
[screams]
So, you want to play dirty,
eh?
Well just remember,
we moles live in dirt!!!
Eat my stank!
[chirping]
[screams]
Ah!
Wipe out!
And Stinky takes the lead!
You can still win this,
little buddy!
[chuckles]
What is this?
Protoformula One Racing!
I do not understand.
The slugs wear helmets that
receive signals transmitted
from the blasters.
[chirping]
Eat my stank!
Forgive me, I understand
what you are doing.
What I do not understand
is why.
Why one would play a game
for fun.
Would this not take away
time for training?
Uh wait, you've never played
a game?
I was born to be my Caverns'
greatest protector,
and it is an honor with
many benefits.
One being, that I do not need
modified blasters
and technology to control
my slugs.
[chirp]
[cries]
[giggles]
[cheer]
Wha-hey!
[sputters]
That is cheating!
Allow me to undertake the
maintenance of your mecha beast
for the next week.
Awe, no, no, no.
I insist.
Make it TWO weeks?
[sputters]
[growls]
[screams]
Why is this happening?
Something's
ghouling our slugs!
Bluster!
[grunts]
Cure him, Doc!
[gasps]
Oh, whew!
It didn't work!
Whoa!
If a bunch of the slugs out
here turned ghoul,
what about all the others
down in--
--the clubhouse!
[growling]
[chirping]
Flatulorhinkus,
Hoverbug, Slyren,
and Tormato slugs have changed.
This is bad.
This is real bad!
[growls]
[chirps]
It's still not working!
What's going on?
Oh, no!
Look!
Wind-Farm Cavern is overrun!
That place practically runs
on Hoverbugs and Tormatoes.
That's as good a place as
any to start figuring this out.
Let's saddle up!
[grunts]
Let's go!
Well, at least today can't
get any crazier.
[gasps]
The Shadow Clan!
[whispers]
I, uh, [chuckles]
didn't quite catch that.
He says we need to go.
To a Shadow Clan village
near Xanadu Basin.
You speak Shadow Clan?
Of COURSE you speak
Shadow Clan.
Xanadu Basin?
It'll take us days to get
there on mecha.
We can't go.
All of our air slugs have
been ghouled
and we're heading
to Wind-farm so--
Once you hear the message,
I think you will
change your mind.
Message?
What message?
The message from
your father.
[gasps]
If the glyph glows, call
the son, so said Will Shane.
What?!
My father said that?!
We have little time.
You must come with us now.
Let's go, Shane Gang!
Junjie, you in?
It would be my honor to
accompany you.
So...how do we get there?
Eh... Uh?
[whispers]
What did he say?
He said...
"...This is going to hurt."
Oh floppers.
[yelling]
Best day ever!
[yells]
[cheer]
Huh?
[screams]
[groans]
My brain.
Ugh, my stomach is
inside out!
[groans]
I have swallowed
my brains
and my stomachs are not
digesting them well!
Uh oh.
[hurls]
[chirp]
Ugh, excuse me.
[groans]
You okay?
I will be in a moment.
No amount of training can
prepare one for that!
And, forgive my earlier
shrieking.
[whispers]
Slugs are turning into ghouls
all through the Caverns.
So, what about my father's
message?
[chirps]
[grunts]
Whoa.
[chirps]
Huh?
Whoa!
[grunts]
A SLUG?
[giggles]
That's it?!
It's an Enigmo slug!
I thought we had the only
one!
[gasps]
[chirps]
That's so adorable!
[sputters]
I'm cuter.
Enigmo slugs mess up your
vision and make you see stuff.
So why would my dad leave
one for us?
[whispers]
Over there?
Okay.
Alright, now what?
Oh floppers.
We will leave you
to the message
and trust that it holds
answers to our problems.
Now we must go and do what
we can to attend to the ghouls
that plague the Caverns
elsewhere.
But wait!
Aren't you...
Huh?
[chirps]
Dad!?
I hate to tell you this,
but that is not your father.
It is a hologram!
Ohhhhhh.
Thanks Pronto.
Eli, I've recorded this
message in the hopes
By now you are the Shane,
and I'm no longer here for you.
I imagine we've had some
amazing adventures together,
and I'm sure that you've
made me proud
of the man that you've become.
By now I've taught you about all
the different slugs that exist
in the 99 Caverns--
But there weren't always so
many kinds of slugs.
Long ago there were only
the Five:
Earth, Air, Energy,
Water, and Fire.
Every slug that exists came
from these five Elementals.
If anything were to happen
to an Elemental
something terrible would happen
to all the slugs related to it.
It has to be what happened
to Bluster and the others!
The Air Elemental must have
been corrupted somehow!
If you're seeing this message,
something terrible has
already occurred.
Together, the five Elementals
have incredible power.
That's why they've been
scattered across the 99 caverns.
You must gather
the Five together.
Only that will cure what damage
has been done.
I'm sorry I can't be here
to help you, son.
This map will lead you to where
the Five are hidden.
The map, as well as this
recording of me,
are stored within
this Enigmo Slug.
Sorry, but someone will
have to slug you
every time you
want to use it.
Ugh, the indignities we must
endure to save our world!
Only you can access the map,
Eli,
by supplying the answers to
questions you and I share.
Just say "Locate Earth
Elemental"
and I'll ask you a
password question.
Good luck, son.
DAD!
Wait!
Ugh, Eli!
For the last time, that was
not your father!
It was a mere hologram,
okay?
[chirps]
[screams]
Not again!
Beeker! No!
It's happening to all
our water slugs!
[growling]
Whatever befell the Air
Elemental must now be happening
to the Water Elemental.
We must hurry
to that location,
and stop this corruption
before it spreads further.
We're gonna fix this, and
get our slugs back to normal.
The map is tuned to you,
Eli.
Can you find the Cavern?
Yeah, I can find it.
Locate Water Elemental.
You and I used to love racing
down the hill
during winters at the cabin.
What was the name
of our sled?
Oh boy.
Poopy-pants.
My sled was named
poopy-pants.
[chuckles]
Poppy-pants.
Access granted, location:
Undertow Cavern.
That's real close.
Saddle up!
What has happened
to this place?!
If I were to guess, ghouling
the Elementals is wreaking havoc
on the slug energy of
the cavern.
[grunts]
Eli!
DARKBANE!
Oh floppers.
This is not good.
What are these guys
doing here?
They are here to obey
my commands.
(All): The Goon?!
The Goon found a new
host slinger!
And he's working
with the Darkbane?!
[laughs]
Goon's GOT to be
the one who took the Elementals!
I do not know what those
monsters are,
but YOU I know all too well.
And I know you better,
little protector!
I've lived inside your mind!
And for that you will pay.
Vengeance, Juju!
Yeah!
Bake him, Burpy!
You fools are too late!
We've ghouled the Air
Elemental as well as the Water.
When my associate returns
with it,
we will acquire the
remaining three!
Okay, nobody told me there
was going to be math!
[growls]
[grunts]
Eli, we'll try and retrieve
the Air Elemental.
You need to find and recover
the Water.
Only problem, the map says
the Elemental's on that island.
And there's a lot of Darkbane
between the sea and us.
We can handle these guys,
Eli.
Kord, give me an exit
to the shoreline.
[chirps]
One tunnel, comin' up!
[grunts]
Up to us
to hold the fort.
HOLD the fort?
Pronto will deliver
the Goon on a silver platter
with a cave-apple
in his mouth!
[kisses]
[screams]
After, a short recess,
of course.
There is no way we're swimming
across all that dark water.
[chirps]
Can you go
Updraft??
[chirps]
[grunts]
Woahh!
Ugh, I'm out!
Junjie, toss me a Hop Rock!!
That was a piece-of-cake shot!
The Goon was LINED UP!
You did not guide the slug.
With proper use of slug fu--
Does it LOOK like
I know slug fu!!??
Your little tricks didn't help
you save your Caverns, Junjie,
and they won't help here.
And you, Eli!
I'll crush your Cavern too,
after I twist your precious
Elementals to my will.
You know this is true.
You've SEEN it!
Wait.
Where IS Eli?
I think we should go in there!
Keep your eyes peeled
for the Goon's associate.
We'll have to take him down
to get the Water Elemental.
This place...
It seems familiar.
[gasps]
He should be in here
somewhere.
[yells]
[screams]
Oh, he's here alright,
and he makes
such a fine ghoul.
[laughs]
No!
Dr. Blakk!
But, how did you?
My trip to the deep caverns
was invigorating.
[grunts]
[scream]
Quite invigorating, indeed.
[laughs]
How long I've waited
for this moment.
Without The Elemental Slugs,
The 99 Caverns will tear
themselves apart.
[panicked chirping]
[roar]
No!
UGH!!!!!!!
[grunts]
As tempting as it is
to finish this now,
The Goon and I have
bigger plans for you.
AHHH!!!
As we take The Elementals
one by one,
I want you to see that
everything you love
will turn to ash
before your eyes...
and you'll look back and
wish it had all ended here.
Huh?
[laughter]
Whoa!
How does he know
about The Elementals?
Eli's been gone too long!
I don't like it!
[grunts]
I am guessing that that cave-in
has something to do with it!
We gotta get over there
and help him!
Once we deal with that!
Dr. Blakk?!
And he appears to have been
working out.
Wait - Blakk and The Goon?
Together!?
You have the Elemental?
[growls]
Excellent.
And the Shane?
I can sense he's still alive!
Why didn't you finish him?
After all he's done to me?
I want him to suffer.
Ending him now would be
too merciful.
You should have ended this
while you had the chance.
Quick! To the next Elemental!
Okay, now we can concentrate
on helpin' out Eli!
Now Junjie...
eh...Junjie?
[grunt]
I cannot allow you
to leave here with that slug.
[growls]
[frightened chirp]
Listen to me: you are not
my enemy.
The Goon controls your mind,
as he once controlled mine.
He cannot hear you,
Eastern Champion.
But I can.
I used to think I'd never find
a host as good as you.
But this one is actually better.
After all...
what kind of slinger can't even
save his home cavern?
[fighting grunts]
So, uh... any ideas
on how to get to Eli?
Whoa!
[grunts]
Blakk is back, somehow.
He's got The Water Elemental
and he'll be going
after the rest.
We saw him!
He's working with the Goon.
Who has escaped
with the Elemental.
Then we gotta get
to the next one first.
[chirps]
Ready to open that map?
Uh, Pronto volunteers himself
to fire The Enigmo.
No need to get slugged if
you can avoid it, eh?
[chuckles]
Uh, Junjie -
what happened back there, bro?
You do realize you bailed
and left Eli trapped, right?
The Goon was escaping
with the Elemental.
I trusted Eli could handle
himself --
which he did.
I'm ready.
Let's do this.
What if this is how Blakk
is beating us?
You said yourself The Goon
can get in your head.
What if he's stealing the
Elemental locations from you?
I do not think so.
Consider that The Goon
obtained the first elemental
before your Shadow-clan
even told us about The Five.
June's right, Trix.
Besides, it doesn't work
that way.
It's more like...
a scar.
A reminder of what
he did to us.
Do it.
[laughter]
Better you than me!
[grunts]
Eli, if you're listening
to this,
it's time to unlock
the next of the 5.
So Blakk has Air and Water,
which leaves us with Earth,
Fire and Energy.
"Locate Earth Elemental."
Done.
Which were the only teammates
of mine
I ever brought to the surface
to meet you?
Hmmmm.
What about your Dad's tracker...
Tom Por?
I don't know.
Dad never brought
anyone home.
[chirps]
Unless...
It's your slugs, right?
You always said they were
a slinger's teammates
as much as anyone.
[chirps]
Well done.
Hey.
That's Quartermain Cavern.
Well then that makes
this simple!
I know quite a few shortcuts
that can get us there quickly.
Then what are we still standing
around here for?
Let's go!
Just a sec, guys.
Trixie mentioned Tom Por.
I know you and he had
your differences over the years
but he was
a good teammate.
How did you two keep
it together
when you didn't always
get along?
I'm not your father, Eli.
I'm a heuristic recording
based on a limited number
of pre-programmed responses.
Pronto I keep telling him that,
Mr. Shane,
but he just won't listen to me!
You know what he's like,
right?
All I can tell you is...
trust your instincts.
You'll figure it out, Eli.
I promise.
To Quartermain then.
So much for simple.
By ghouling two of
the Elementals,
Blakk and the Goon have ghouled
almost half the slugs
in Slugterra.
It's a miracle we haven't seen
even more damage than we have.
I just hope the other caverns
are doing better
than this place.
Eh...so...what do we do?
Only one thing to do.
Close your eyes,
hold your nose...
...and jump!
That is considered a plan?
"Jump?"
Yeah it is!
He-he-he-whoo!
[grunts]
Uh, heh, surely there must
be another way
that involves getting a bit
less mud
on my luxurious, Molenoid coat!
Actually, friend Pronto,
there is.
[giggles]
[yelling]
This is great!
[cheering]
Wait a minute -- Junjie!
Where are Pronto and Junjie?
Oooh!
Whoooaa!
Kowabalooga!
All it takes is your
Geoshard slug --
and a fair degree
of balance.
Well you heard him,
guys!
Fire Geoshards!!
[grunt]
WHOOO-HAHA!
[laughs]
This is haunted, bro!
HA-HA!
Hey, look at me! I am so epic.
Probably the most epic
surfer who ever-
Gah --
WHAAA!
Whoa!!
Watch out!!
[grunt]
[yelps]
Pronto!
AHH!!
The Earth Elemental!
[chirps]
We did it!
Nice!
Easy now.
I've got you, Little Lord.
He missed!
I'm on it!
[roars]
[grunts]
[nervous chirp]
[roars]
[grunts]
Eeeeeee!
I've got you,
little guy!
Oh no -- look out!!
Huh?
BRACE FOR IMPACT!!
WHOA!!!!!!
Hang on, guys!
AHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!
[gasps]
[nervous laughter]
Eli!
[panicked chirps]
We have to seal that up!
Well, it wasn't exactly easy,
but at least we have
the Earth Elemental.
if your slug hadn't knocked
mine off course!
Off course?
Your slug missed the Elemental!
I was bringing it around,
so it could push the Elemental
towards me.
I was in complete control
of my slug.
That is a basic part
of my training.
So you're saying,
you had it all under control?
YES.
[groan]
You gotta admit, Trix...
his slug-foo is, hm...
pretty cool.
Uhh.
Not to be a bummer.
But I don't think those webs
can hold much longer!
[grunts]
that can get us through
a million tons of mud!
[chirps]
The Earth Elemental!
Looks like he's got an idea
to get us out.
That is unadvisable.
It would be more prudent
not to use the new slug
until you have had time
to properly train it.
that's not really the way
I do things...
I trust the slugs.
Besides its not like
we've got any choice!
Uhh... guys!
Aw, floppers.
[sighs of relief]
Yes!
[cheers]
That was awesome!
[chirps]
Now let's get out of here.
are probably already headed
to the next Elemental...
[grunting]
[screaming]
I'm telling you it's not here.
And that is my fault?
We should have gone after
The Earth Elemental
You honestly think I'd listen to
a monster such as yourself?
You sound as if you don't
trust me!
Should I?
Of course not!!!
Alright, knock it off!
I don't know what's worse;
you two bickering like
married Molenoids
or the fact that you're tearing
my town apart!
Redhook, you daft twit!
[gasps]
Nobody calls me daft!
Uh oh.
[Strains]
What's up with you,
Blakk?
You got bad allergies
or something?
You're all bloated and puffy.
The Energy Elemental.
Where is it?
That's just a stupid legend,
like the Burning World
or odorless plumbing!
[grunts]
Tell me where it is!
What do I look like?
A mind-reader?
No.
But I am.
[stutters]
Hey!
Quit messin' with my noodle box,
ya snoop!
Ooh... he's speaking the truth.
The only thing that's going
on in that daft brain
is a recipe for hot sauce and
some plans to watch a...
terrible movie.
[gasps]
Terrible?!
Max Jackson's 2000
Furious Punches
is the best floppin' movie
ever made!!
What movie do you like?
Kisses From A Hoverbug?!
[kissing]
We're wasting time here.
We must hurry to
the next Elemental,
and hope that we figure out
where this Energy slug
is en route!
[snarl]
We're running in circles!
What if you're wrong
about the next one too?!
What if the Shane Gang finds
the Energy Elemental before us?
If I can't find it,
they won't either.
Their intel can't possibly be
as good as mine.
Once we have the others,
and we will,
the Energy Elemental will be
easy to find.
[growl]
We'll play it your way,
Slug.
For now.
But for you?
[chuckles]
We get to play...
my way.
[gulp]
[gasp]
[chirp]
[gulp]
[belch]
[sigh]
[chirp cheers]
[stern chirps]
[grunt]
Hmmmmm.
[intrigued chirps]
[sighs]
[cheers]
[annoyed sigh]
I'm just saying,
because of Junjie,
we were that close to losing
the Earth Elemental.
It's not his fault or anything.
He's just too used to being
a solo slinger!
Okay gang, we have
the coordinates.
We're heading for
Quiet Lawn cavern.
Maybe Redhook can help me
with this thing.
Oh... what is that?
Well I noticed The Earth
Elemental gives off
a unique energy signature.
So I'm thinking if the others
have similar properties,
I might be able to calibrate
our blasters
to pick up on it...
maybe.
[squeals]
Whoa-ho-oh, easy guys...
I'm just scanning.
Yeah, see?
Something's wrong.
I keep reading two Elementals
in Eli's backpack.
I would try reversing
the polarity, if I were you.
Yeah. I tried that.
I don't know.
Probably the batteries.
I'll charge it as we ride.
Alright.
We're moving out!
How do they keep beating us
to the punch?!
They must have trashed
the Cavern
to find the Energy Elemental.
We're too late!
None of our slugs that are
related to the Energy Elemental
have been ghouled.
Are the batteries recharged?
Argh.
Two signatures.
But why?
We've only got
the Earth Elemental!
We can worry about that
later --
there are people here
who need help!
Huh?
Redhook!
[grunts]
I think he's hurt bad,
bro!
[grunts]
[cough]
Blakk...
stormed in with
The Darkbane,
looking for an Energy Elemental.
Trashed the place
when he didn't find it...
We've got a real pressure-cooker
here!
We're going to get you
out of there.
Hurry! Get this off of him!
[belches]
Once again, it seems I owe
a Shane all that I have.
But I'm afraid...
I won't have the chance
to repay you ...
I think it is too late.
Not for Doc!
You can do this!
I know you can.
Eh...
[laboured gasp for air]
[cheers]
Woo-hoo!!
Hooray for Pronto!!
Hey?!
[chuckles]
Uh, c'mon! Am I right?
That is quite a slug.
He's a healer!
A guardian one at that!
No.
I have seen healers before.
That... is something special.
WHOA-WHOA-WHOA-WHOA-W-WAIT
A MINUTE!
I thought this thing
wasn't working
because it was reading
two Elementals in your pack!
And look - the other one
it was reading was Doc!
What if...
Doc is the Energy Elemental?!
The Hooligang probably found
him here before you two dueled.
[gasp]
[chirps]
Not to rush things but I am
sure the cavern will be safe
in Redhook's
capable hands.
Uh...
hand...
I... uh... hook.
Gah - but, there is still
one Elemental
we have not accounted for!
The Fire Elemental!
We gotta hurry.
Let's move!
[chirp]
Upright Cavern.
According to Dad's hologram,
The Fire Elemental should be
at the top!
There is no way our mechas
can make it up there...
No, but I know what can:
jetpacks!
Which we do not have.
Eli and I will use
Burpy and Juju
to retrieve the Fire Elemental.
You're pretty good at that,
Junjie...
Well, I have been flying
my Infernus since I was five.
Really?
I sorta...
just figured it out.
You're gonna fly up there
without us, bro?
You're really gonna
choose him --
over us?
Us? Aren't the five of us,
"us?"
It's not that Junjie's
not talented.
Or even nice...
Uh, but then again,
Twist seemed very nice
when he joined us.
You know, at first.
This isn't anything like that.
Sure, we had some growing pains,
but we need Junjie.
I'm sure of it.
As much as we need
each other.
[whistles]
[grunt]
Well, I guess he chose...
I'd like to see Blakk
get here first!
After all, it's not
like Darkbane can fly!
Eli, look!
Whoa!
We did it!
There he is!
Hey there!
I'm Eli and this is my friend
Burpy!
Whoa!
[laughing]
Whoa there!
Easy, Burpy!
It appears the Darkbane
can fly.
Move!
Concentrate your fire on
the eels, not the riders!
[grunts]
It's no use!
There are too many!
Blakk!
[grunts]
AGH!!
[panicked chirps]
I'm sorry.
Did I interrupt
a family reunion?
No!
[growls]
[panicked chirp]
[growl]
[barking]
Burpy! No!
AHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
[grunts]
NO!
[chirps]
Got it, Junjie!
Retrieve the Earth Elemental!
And I want Eli alive!
[chirp]
We've gotta work together here,
Junjie!
Let's try that again,
but next time--
WHOA!
[growling]
[grunts]
YAAAH!
Jet packs, made to order!
and made out of our mechabeasts.
[grunts]
NO!
Do not worry Junjie!
I will save yoo-
OOF!
[mumbles]
Great catch, Kord!
They got the fire elemental.
when all of our fire slugs
suddenly turned ghoul!
We need to get Juju
and Burpy back!
But it's not going
to be easy.
[growling]
GO GO GO!
There, we can lose them
in the tunnel!
AHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!
[grunt]
Split up!
[hisses]
[grunts]
These jetpacks don't
have much juice left!
[grunts]
[chirps]
AHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!
Losing power!
[gasps]
[grunts]
Thanks for the lift!
[grunting]
[chirps]
[grunts]
YA-HAAA!!!!!!!
Good job back there!
[chirps]
[gasp]
[grunts]
[scared chirp]
[growls]
[grunting]
AAARGH!!!!!!!!!!
AHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!
[splutters]
Well, that's it
for the Jetpacks.
Pronto, have we been
here before?
Hmm
[muttering]
Ah! Yes, of course!
Accounting for the height
from which we fell -
and the various twists
in the tunnels,
I would calculate that
we have landed precisely
in the neighborhood of--
We're in the Jungle Cavern.
Err, In The Jungle Cavern
But it's been Ghouled.
Another cavern lost to
the ghouled elementals.
This is what's going to happen
to all of Slugterra
if Blakk and Goon get
all five elementals...
[cries]
They will break through
the clog in moments
We must escape, and protect
the elementals we have.
No! We can't keep running,
Junjie.
Like my dad said, getting
the five elementals unghouled
is the only thing
that can save Slugterra.
We have to fight them NOW.
We cannot risk losing
the elementals Eli.
But we have Doc.
The energy elemental
is the key...
[proud chirp]
If we can shoot Doc
at Blakk's elementals,
we win!
If you miss, the energy
elemental will be Blakk's,
and the world as
we know it is lost.
[grunts]
[growls]
Why didn't we just do away
with Eli
while we had our chance?
He has the last two elementals.
We need only take them
from him,
and our plan is complete!
Eliminating Eli gives us
the same result!
Slugterra would no longer be
under the protection
of the Shane.
We would already be
in power!
Let me be clear...
Eli stays alive to see
our total victory.
We do as we agreed!
Here, they come!
[growling]
I'm gonna try to get
a clean shot at Blakk!
[grunts]
AHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!
[grunting]
AHHH!!!!!!!
Almost...
The shot must be perfect...
Do not take it if there is
any chance of a miss!
Almost...
[growling]
[grunt]
AHHHH!!!!!!!!!!
[gasps]
WHOA!!!!!!!!!!!
AHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!
[struggles]
AHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!
[laughs]
Can't...
hang...
ON!
[grunts]
Great shot, thanks!
Well, well I could have
done that!
[chirps]
[roars]
[grunts]
We're trapped!
STOP! Hold your fire!
Eli, the battle is over!
I know you have
the Earth Elemental...
you can't win, give it up!
[chittering]
Hey, great idea!
Junjie, Load up a phosphoro,
follow my lead!
Hey Blakk!
You want the Earth Elemental?
go and get it!
GAHHHHHH!!!!!!!!
[chirp]
The earth elemental!?
Hurry!
[chirps]
[laughing]
[grunts]
We've been tricked!
What are you doing!?!
[grunts]
We've played it your way
far too long!
[growls]
It is time to do away
with Eli.
Once and for all!
[growl]
Slugterra is literally sinking
before our eyes...
Getting the five elementals
together
is the only way to save it!
Ok, lay it on me bro.
You and Trixie keep the Goon
and the Darkbane occupied.
Pronto, you lure Dr. Blakk away
from the Darkbane.
Junjie, I need you to take him
off his eel and keep him still
so I can blast him
with Doc
and cure the remaining
elementals.
Everyone got it?
(All): Got it!
[grunt]
[growls]
AHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!
[panting]
[laughs]
Why is it always Pronto
who is the bait?
[panting]
Wait a second---!
Didn't Eli say Blakk
has all the elementals!
My scanner says
the Goon's got one...
which means--
Eli's shot isn't going
to work!
Gotta warn Junjie!
Cover me!
Ok Pronto, it's all on you.
Junjie!
Stop Blakk from reaching
Eli!
[grunts]
Stop Blakk!
Trixie!
A little help?
AHHHHH!!!!!!!
UGH!!!!!!!!
No!
[laughs]
Get ready Junjie!!!
[grunting]
JUNJIE!!?
That is not the plan!
I am totally squealing
to Eli!!
AHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!
Abort! Abort!!!
That's not Dr. Blakk.
Pronto, what's going on?
Junjie's doing his own thing
again!
And ruined the plan!
I'm going to get
Kord & Trixie!
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!
Grrrrrrrr...
[grunting]
[chirping]
[gasps]
[grunts]
What has he done?!
This is all wrong!
Very wrong indeed.
[gasps]
UGH!!!!!!!
[impact chirp]
The healer...?
[groans gasps]
You're mine now!
Doc!
[growls]
[roars]
[snarls]
[chirps]
[grunts]
[snarl]
[snarling]
Eli must've somehow lost
the Earth Elemental!
Yes! It's happening!
[laughs]
We have four of the five
elementals now, Eli!
Slugterra is almost ours.
[grunts]
AAAAAAHHHHH!
HELP!
[gasps]
Eli's in trouble!
It was Junjie's fault!
He abandoned his post
and now-
Relax Pronto, it was me,
I told Junjie to stop Blakk
from reaching Eli
because Blakk doesn't have
all the Elementals.
And I regret to tell you
that I lost him...
and the elementals.
It's okay, Junjie -
you did exactly what
the team needed.
Eli was right...
we need you buddy,
c'mere, don't leave
a teammate hangin'.
I sense that you're close,
there's no use in hiding.
Who says I'm hiding?
[grunting]
[laughing]
I know you have the energy
elemental somewhere, Eli.
We scoured Quiet Lawn Cavern
looking for it --
and it was nowhere
to be found!
How did you even know
where to look?
You somehow hacked into my
father's hologram didn't you!?!
Hologram!?
NO, you fool!
I simply hacked
into the real thing!
Dad!?
what are you--?
He can't hear you!
His mind is mine...
you remember what that's like,
don't you?
Yeah, well I prefer not
to think about it...
The Energy Elemental,
hand it over now.
[snarling]
[chirps]
Ok, ok easy.
You want the Energy Elemental?
He's right here!
AHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!
[chirp]
[chirps]
No, no!
Dad!
Eli...
The elementals?
[chirping]
[grunts]
Not so fast!
Turn your elementals over,
Eli!
[growls]
Gah!
Huh?
Wha--?
[pained grunts]
Stop it!
This was not our plan!
The plan has changed.
If you and I can't see
eye-to-eye,
then perhaps we can see
mind-to-mind.
Guys!
[gasp]
Burpy's back!
Yes!
Glad you are safe,
Juju.
Eli?
Is this...?
It can't be...
So umm...
who's the hobo?
Dad...are you okay?
Dad?
[gasps]
It is!!
[chirps]
Hello old friend!
I'm fine.
The future of Slugterra is
at stake!
You must--
I know.
Quickly, fill me in!
We've got three elementals--
the Goon's got two.
The good news is-
You've got
the energy elemental...
Say hello, Doc!
[chirps]
Well come on then!
We can't waste time!
We can catch him
by surprise!
You heard him! Come on!
Aggghhh!
It's no use!
You are mine now.
[grunts]
You...
can't...
NOOooooo...
Now, let's finish this!
Regroup!
Keep your eyes peeled!
They can't have gone far...
We're too late!
We've got to try the same thing
as before...
Lure him into
the line of fire,
so I can shoot him with Doc.
And this time around,
we've got two Shanes.
Right, Dad?
Let's do it!
Will Shane just said
"Let's do it!"
[giddy]
So here's what we need
to do...
[grunts]
[battle cry]
Whew!
[loud babbling]
[panting]
[grunt]
Ready?
Ready!
[grunt]
Get them!
[growling]
You can take position at
the other side of the sinkhole!
It seems I've spent so much time
in your mind, Will Shane,
that I can anticipate
your moves.
We'll see.
[grunts]
[winces]
What?
[deep breaths]
Now Eli!
[roars]
UGH!!!!!!!!!
[gasping]
[chirping]
AHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!
Yes!
[growl]
[CHEERS!]
[giggles]
Great shot, Eli!
Thanks Dad, did
we get them all?
But to save Slugterra
and reverse the damage,
we need to sling
them simultaneously.
I've met you before!
It's Pinto, right?!
Bah! Pinto!?
Pinto is my identical
twin brother!
BROTHER!?
I'd rather let you shrivel
and writhe,
but we have a job to do.
Let's do this!
[gasps]
Take the shot Blakk,
shoot!
Shoot!
ELI!
STOP!
NOOOOOooo!
NO!
Dad!
No no Dad!!
Eli no!
You must save Slugterra now!
While there is still time!
No! I have to save him!
Set aside your emotions,
do not fail this world
as I did mine, please Eli,
it's what your father
would want you to do.
It is your duty!
Load 'em up.
[chirping]
[cheering]
[growls]
[CHEERING]
[chirping]
The Shane gang just
saved Slugterra...
And now, the five of us...?
are gonna save my Dad.